>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA
URGED.S.  UNAVAL ACADEMY
GRADUATES TO PUT A STOP TO
SEXUAL ASSAULTS, SAYING THE
CRISIS THREATENS TRUST IN THE
MILITARY.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Brown: AND I'M JEFFREY BROWN
ON THE "NEWSHOUR" TONIGHT, WE
EXCERPT THE PRESIDENT'S
COMMENCEMENT SPEECH, AND THENRNE
C.I.A. IN THE FIGHT AGAINST
TERRORISTS.
>> Woodruff: WE HAVE THE STORY
OF OKLAHOMANS HELPING ONE
ANOTHER IN A RURAL COUNTY HIT BY
A TORNADO ONE DAY BEFORE THE
DEVASTATION IN THE TOWN OF
MOORE.
>> COMMUNITY OUTPOURING HAS JUST
BEEN AMAZING.
THE AMOUNT OF PEOPLE THAT ARE
HELPING EACH OTHER, THE CHURCHES
GROUPS, THE SPONTANEOUS
VOLUNTEERS.
IT'S BEEN AMAZING.
>> Brown: THE SIT-COM "ARRESTED
DEVELOPMENT" COMES BACK, BUT
ONLINE ONLY.
GWEN IFILL EXAMINES WHAT A NEW
BUSINESS MODEL MAY MEAN FOR THE
WAY WE WATCH AND TALK ABOUT
TELEVISION PROGRAMS.
>> THE EXPLOSIVE NATURE OF HOW
THE CONVERSATION WORKS CAN STILL
BE AP SAY I SAW
FIVE EPISODES OF "ARRESTED
DEVELOPMENT," YOU MIGHT NOT BE
DOING IT ON THE WATERCOOLER THE
NEXT DAY, YOU'RE GOING TO BE
DOING IT ON YOUR SOCIAL MEDIA.
>> Woodruff: DAVID BROOKS AND
RUTH MARCUS ANALYZE THE WEEK'S
NEWS.
>> Brown: AND THE FIRST OF TWO
CONVERSATIONS ABOUT THE U.S.
ROLE ON THE GLOBAL STAGE:
MARGARET WARNER GETS A BEHIND-
THE-SCENES CRITIQUE OF POLICY-
MAKING FROM AUTHOR AND FORMER
STATE DEPARTMENT OFFICIAL, VALI
NASR.
>> Woodruff: THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON
TONIGHT'S "NEWSHOUR."
>> Brown: FOR MORE THAN 1000
MIDSHIPMEN AT THE NAVAL ACADEMY,
THIS WAS COMMENCEMENT DAY.
FOR THE PRESIDENT, IT WAS ALSO A
CHANCE TO ADDRESS KEY MILITARY
AND NATIONAL SECURITY ISSUES IN
HIS GRADUATION SPEECH AT
ANNAPOLIS.
>> THE SUPERINTENDENT TOLD ME
THAT MARINES AND FOLKS IN THE
NAVY DON'T MIND A LITTLE WATER.
(LAUGHTER)
>> Brown: WINDS AND RAIN PELTED
THE FUTURE LEADERS OF THE NAVY
AND MARINES, EVOCATIVE OF STORMY
TIMES FACING THE NATION'S
MILITARY, ESPECIALLY, SEXUAL
ASSAULTS.
THE COMMANDER IN CHIEF PUSHED
THE GRADUATES TO UPHOLD THE
HONOR OF THE ARMED FORCES.
>> THOSE WHO COMMIT SEXUAL
ASSAULT ARE NOT ONLY COMMITTING
CRIME, THEY THREATEN THE TRUST
AND DISCIPLINE THAT MAKES OUR
MILITARY STRONG.
THAT'S WHY WE HAVE TO BE
DETERMINED TO STOP THESE CRIMES.
BECAUSE THEY'VE GOT NO PLACE IN
THE GREATEST MILITARY ON EARTH.
>> Brown: THE PRESIDENT ALSO
ACKNOWLEDGED ANOTHER MAJOR
CHALLENGE, DEEP BUDGET CUTS, BUT
HE INSISTED MILITARY READINESS
WILL NOT SUFFER.
>> IN THESE TOUGH FISCAL TIMES,
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
WILL ALWAYS MAINTAIN OUR
MILITARY SUPERIORITY.
AND AS YOUR COMMANDER IN CHIEF,
I AM GOING TO KEEP FIGHTING TO
GIVE YOU THE EQUIPMENT AND
SUPPORT REQUIRED TO MEET THE
MISSIONS WE ASK OF YOU AND ALSO
TO MAKE SURE THAT YOU ARE
GETTING THE PAY AND THE BENEFITS
AND THE SUPPORT THAT YOU
DESERVE.
>> Brown: PRESIDENT OBAMA LAUDED
THE NAVY SEALS WHO KILLED OSAMA
BIN LADEN, BUT HE SPOKE, TOO,
OF THE CHANGING NATURE OF THE
FIGHT AGAINST TERROR.
>> FOR EVEN AS WE'VE DECIMATED
THE AL QAEDA LEADERSHIP, WE
STILL FACE THREATS FROM AL QAEDA
AFFILIATES AND INDIVIDUALS
CAUGHT UP IN ITS IDEOLOGY.
EVEN AS WE MOVE BEYOND DEPLOYING
LARGE GROUND ARMIES ABROAD, WE
STILL NEED TO CONDUCT PRECISE
TARGET STREDIKES AGAINST
TERRORISTS BEFORE THEY KILL OUR
CITIZENS.
>> Brown: JUST YESTERDAY, IN A
MAJOR SECURITY SPEECH, THE
PRESIDENT SPOKE OF TRANSFERRING
THE SECRETIVE DRONE AIRCRAFT
PROGRAM TO MILITARY CONTROL AND
MAKING IT MORE ACCOUNTABLE.
>> FOR THE SAME HUMAN PROGRESS
THAT GIVES US THE TECHNOLOGY TO
STRIKE HALF A WORLD AWAY ALSO
DEMANDS THE DISCIPLINE TO
CONSTRAIN THAT POWER OR RISK
ABUSING IT.
AND THAT'S WHY, OVER THE LAST
FOUR YEARS, MY ADMINISTRATION
HAS WORKED VIGOROUSLY TO
ESTABLISH A FRAMEWORK THAT
GOVERNS OUR USE OF FORCE AGAINST
TERRORISTS, INSISTING UPON CLEAR
GUIDELINES, OVERSIGHT AND
ACCOUNTABILITY THAT IS NOW
CODIFIED IN PRESIDENTIAL POLICY
GUIDANCE THAT I SIGNED
YESTERDAY.
>> Brown: TODAY, OFFICIALS IN
PAKISTAN, WHERE MANY OF THE U.S.
DRONE STRIKES OCCUR WELCOMED THE
MOVE TO CURTAIL THEIR USE, BUT
THEY ALSO ARGUED ANY STRIKES
VIOLATE PAKISTANI SOVEREIGNTY.
THE NEW APPROACH TO USING DRONES
AND FIGHTING TERROR THAT THE
PRESIDENT OUTLINED YESTERDAY
WILL IMPACT A NUMBER OF NATIONAL
SECURITY AND MILITARY FORCES,
NOTABLY THE C.I.A.
REPORTER MARK MAZZETTI WROTE ON
THAT IN TODAY'S "NEW YORK
TIMES."
HE ALSO DOCUMENTED THE EVOLUTION
OF AMERICAN WARFARE IN THE POST-
9/11 ERA IN HIS RECENT BOOK,
"THE WAY OF THE KNIFE."
WELL, MARK, WELCOME TO YOU.
JUST TO SET THE CONTEXT A BIT,
TAKE US BACK BRIEFLY.
HOW AND WHY DID BOTH THE C.I.A.
AND THE MILITARY COME TO HAVE
THEIR OWN DRONE PROGRAMS?
AND WHAT ARE THE DIFFERENCES?
>> WELL, BOTH THE C.I.A. AND THE
MILITARY WERE WORKING ON
PREDATOR DRONES BEFORE 9/11 AND
SHORTLY AFTER THE SEPTEMBER 11
ATTACKS PRESIDENT BUSH GAVE THE
C.I.A. THIS WIDE AUTHORITY TO GO
CAPTURE AND KILL AROUND THE
GLOBE.
THE C.I.A. STARTED USING DRONES
IN AFGHANISTAN, THERE WAS A
DRONE STRIKE IN YEMEN AND THEN
STARTING IN 2004 BEGAN USING
DRONE STRIKES IN PAKISTAN.
AND FROM THERE WHAT STARTED AS A
REAL TRICKLE OF DRONE STRIKES
REALLY WENT INTO SORT OF --
ESCALATED DRAMATICALLY AROUND
2008 TO THE POINT WHERE THERE'S
BEEN HUNDREDS OF DRONE STRIKES
IN PAKISTAN CARRIED OUT BY THE
C.I.A.
THE MILITARY HAS ALSO DONE A
PARALLEL -- HAD A PARALLEL DRONE
PROGRAM IN IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN
AND WHAT WE'VE SEEN IN RECENT
YEARS, BOTH THE C.I.A. AND THE
PENTAGON HAVE BOTH HAD PROGRAMS
IN YEMEN.
SO THERE'S BEEN A CERTAIN
REDUNDANCY IN THESE OPERATIONS
AND WHAT WE'VE -- WHAT WE HEARD
BOTH THE PRESIDENT SAY YESTERDAY
AND OTHER AIDES TO THE PRESIDENT
TALK ABOUT ON BACKGROUND WAS
THIS NEED TO SORT OF SHIFT MORE
OF THE RESOURCES TO THE
PENTAGON.
ALTHOUGH IT SHOULD BE POINTED
OUT THAT THE C.I.A.'S NOT
ENTIRELY GIVING UP ITS PART OR
ITS ASPECT OF THE DRONE PROGRAM.
>> Brown: SO WHAT WOULD THIS
MEAN FOR THE C.I.A. IN TERMS OF
HOW HARD IT WOULD BE TO
TRANSITION BACK TO MORE OF AN
INTELLIGENCE-GATHERING FROM WHAT
I GATHER HAS REALLY DEVELOPED
INTO MORE OF A PARAMILITARY
SERVICE.
>> RIGHT.
SO FOR NEARLY 12 YEARS, THE
C.I.A. HAS BEEN IN MANY WAYS
ALMOST SINGULARLY FOCUSED ON
COUNTERTERRORISM CAPTURING,
KILLING, INTERROGATING.
AND THESE ARE VERY PARAMILITARY
FUNCTIONS THAT THE C.I.A. HAS
BEEN DEEPLY INVOLVED IN.
THIS IS MAYBE JUST THE BEGINNING
OF A SHIFT BACK TOWARDS MORE
TRADITIONAL ESPIONAGE OPERATIONS
AND ALSO THE STRATEGIC ANALYSIS
THAT THE C.I.A. HAS DONE IN THE
PAST.
NOW, AS I WRITE ABOUT IN THE
PAPER TODAY, IT'S GOING TO TAKE
SOME TIME, YOU CAN'T JUST SORT
OF CHANGE THE AGENCY OVERNIGHT.
THE AGENCY, AS I SAID, HAS BEEN
DOING THIS FOR ABOUT A DOZEN
YEARS AND A WHOLE GENERATION OF
C.I.A. OFFICERS HAVE BEEN
TRAINED IN THIS SORT OF TACTICAL
MANHUNTING MISSION.
SO GOING BACK TO THE MORE
TRADITIONAL ESPIONAGE THAT MANY
PEOPLE KNEW ABOUT AND KNOW FROM
THE COLD WAR AND FROM SPY MOVIES
I MEAN, THIS DOES TAKE TIME.
IT COULD TAKE YEARS, IT COULD
TAKE ANOTHER GENERATION.
>> Brown: AND IN TERMS OF THE
DECISION TO MOVE THE DRONE
PROGRAM BACK TO THE DEPARTMENT,
THE THEORY THAT THERE IS THAT IT
WILL BE MORE ACCOUNTABLE, MORE
-- MORE WHAT?
OPEN?
MORE EFFICIENT?
WHAT'S THE IDEA?
>> WELL, I MEAN, THE IDEA IS
THAT MISSILES FIRED FROM
AIRPLANES SHOULD BE THE JOB OF
THE -- SHOULD BE DONE BY THE
MILITARY, RIGHT?
IT'S A MILITARY OPERATION.
AND IN THEORY THE IDEA IS THAT
THIS WILL BE MORE ACCOUNTABLE
AND MORE TRANSPARENT.
NOW, IN PRACTICE, THIS DOESN'T
ALWAYS HAPPEN.
AS WE SAID, THE MILITARY HAS A
DRONE PROGRAM RIGHT NOW IN YEMEN
AND IT IS VERY HARD TO GET ANY
INFORMATION ABOUT THAT PROGRAM
WHO IS KILLED, WHERE THE STRIKES
TAKE PLACE.
AND SO JUST BECAUSE IT'S IN THE
PENTAGON'S HAND DOESN'T MAKE IT
NECESSARILY MORE TRANSPARENT OR
EVEN NECESSARILY MORE
ACCOUNTABLE.
SO, AGAIN, JUST BY SAYING THAT
THERE'S GOING TO BE A SHIFT,
THERE'S GOING TO HAVE TO BE MORE
DETAILS ABOUT WHAT THE FUTURE IS
AND I THOUGHT IT WAS INTERESTING
THAT ACTUALLY IN HIS SPEECH
YESTERDAY PRESIDENT OBAMA DIDN'T
EVEN ACTUALLY MENTION THE C.I.A.
ONCE, WHICH DOES SORT OF
INDICATE THAT THIS TRANSPARENCY
ONLY GOES SO FAR.
>> Brown: AND HOW MUCH CAN YOU
TELL AT THIS POINT ABOUT
RETIONAC TO ALL THIS FROM THE
C.I.A.?
>> WELL, IT'S HARD TO TELL.
YOU KNOW, THERE'S CERTAINLY
CONSTITUENCIES WITHIN THE C.I.A.
THAT WOULD WANT TO -- WOULD HAVE
HELD ON TO THE BULK OF JOINT
OPERATIONS, THE COUNTERTERRORISM
CENTER AS I WRITE ABOUT HAS
REALLY DRAMATICALLY EXPANDED
SINCE 9/11 AND SORT OF BECOME
THE BEATING HEART OF THE C.I.A..
IF THE DRONE STRIKES LEAVE THE
COUNTERTERRORISM CENTER AND GO
TO THE MILITARY THEN THE
COUNTERTERRORISM CENTER MAY FIND
ITSELF HAVING LESS POWER WITHIN
THE AGENCY.
THAT BEING SAID, JOHN BRENNAN,
THE NEW C.I.A. DIRECTOR, HAS
INDICATED THAT HE WANTS THIS
CHANGE TO GRADUALLY HAPPEN FOR
PARAMILITARY FUNCTIONS, MANY OF
THEM TO GO TO THE PENTAGON SO IT
IS CLEARLY A CHANGE THAT'S
COMING FROM THE TOP AND I ALSO
DO THINK THAT THERE'S ELEMENTS
WITHIN THE C.I.A. THAT ARE HAPPY
TO GIVE IT UP BECAUSE THEY SEE
THERE'S BEEN SOME OPPORTUNITY
COSTS FOR WHAT THEY HAVE NOT
DONE BY DOING THIS
COUNTERTERRORISM.
>> Brown: EXACTLY.
THAT'S WHAT I WANTED TO ASK YOU
IN THE LAST MINUTE BECAUSE THE
OTHER PART OF THE CONTEXT SINCE
9/11 AND ON IS THE CRITICISM
AFTER U.S. INTELLIGENCE
GATHERING OVERALL.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
THERE'S A QUESTION OF WHAT ARE
THEY NOT DOING.
OBVIOUSLY THERE WAS THE FAMOUS
FAILURE OF THE IRAQ W.M.D.
ANALYSIS AND THEN THERE'S OTHER
ISSUES WHICH, FOR INSTANCE, YOU
KNOW, IS THE C.I.A. ASSESSING
GLOBAL TRENDS?
WAS THE C.I.A. UP TO DATE ON THE
ARAB SPRING?
WAS IT BEHIND THE CURVE AS THE
REVOLUTIONS WERE GOING ON
THROUGHOUT THE MIDDLE EAST?
WERE THEY PROVIDING POLICYMAKERS
ANALYSIS IN ORDER TO MAKE
DECISIONS?
I MEAN, THESE SOME OF THE THINGS
THAT THE C.I.A. WAS FOUNDED TO
DO.
AND THE QUESTION IS, WHEN YOU'RE
DOING A TACTICAL MANHUNTING
COUNTERTERRORISM OPERATION, CAN
YOU ALSO SEE THE BIG PICTURE?
SOME OF THESE MOVES, AT LEAST IN
THEORY, ARE DESIGNED TO GET THE
C.I.A. BACK TO SEEING THE BIGGER
PICTURE.
>> Brown: MARK MAZZETTI, THANKS
SO MUCH.
>> THANKS VERY MUCH.
>> Woodruff: STILL TO COME ON
THE "NEWSHOUR": OKLAHOMANS
HELPING EACH OTHER; TELEVISION
SHOWS THAT AREN'T ON TELEVISION;
BROOKS AND MARCUS AND AN INSIDE
LOOK AT THE MAKING OF U.S.
FOREIGN POLICY.
BUT FIRST, THE OTHER NEWS OF THE
DAY.
HERE'S HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: SYRIA HAS AGREED
IN PRINCIPLE TO ATTEND AN
INTERNATIONAL PEACE CONFERENCE
BROKERED BY THE U.S. AND RUSSIA.
THE ANNOUNCEMENT CAME TODAY FROM
THE RUSSIAN FOREIGN MINISTRY.
THE PROPOSED TALKS AIM TO
ESTABLISH THE OUTLINES FOR A
TRANSITION IN SYRIA WITHOUT
PRESIDENT BASHAR AL-ASSAD.
BUT HE HAS ALREADY SAID HE WON'T
STEP DOWN WITHOUT ELECTIONS.
MEANWHILE, IRAN DENIED IT HAS
FIGHTERS INSIDE SYRIA SUPPORTING
ASSAD.
THE FRIENDS OF SYRIA MADE THAT
CLAIM YESTERDAY.
IN AFGHANISTAN, A SUICIDE CAR
BOMBER AND FIVE HEAVILY ARMED
GUNMEN STRUCK IN THE CAPITAL
CITY OF KABUL.
TWO GUARDS WERE KILLED, AS WELL
AS THE GUNMEN.
THE TARGET WAS A GUEST HOUSE
USED BY AN INTERNATIONAL AID
GROUP.
AFTER THE BOMB BLAST, A GU
BATTLE CONTINUED FOR HOURS AS
POLICE TRADED SHOTS WITH THE
ATTACKERS.
THE TALIBAN CLAIMED
RESPONSIBILITY.
BRITISH FIGHTER JETS WERE
SCRAMBLED TODAY TO DIVERT A
PAKISTANI AIRLINER HEADED FOR
MANCHESTER, ENGLAND.
INSTEAD, IT LANDED AT LONDON'S
STANSTED AIRPORT AND TWO MEN
WERE ARRESTED ON SUSPICION OF
ENDANGERING THE AIRCRAFT.
BRITISH OFFICIALS SAID IT'S A
CRIMINAL MATTER, AND NOT TERROR-
RELATED.
STILL, THE INCIDENT RAISED
TENSIONS, JUST TWO DAYS AFTER
ISLAMIC EXTREMISTS ALLEGEDLY
KILLED A BRITISH SOLDIER ON A
LONDON STREET.
A MAJOR HIGHWAY CONNECTING
SEATTLE, WASHINGTON WITH
VANCOUVER, CANADA WAS CUT TODAY,
AFTER PART OF A BRIDGE DROPPED
INTO THE SKAGIT RIVER.
IT HAPPENED THURSDAY EVENING ON
INTERSTATE FIVE, WHEN A TRUCK
CARRYING AN OVERSIZED LOAD HIT
THE UPPER PART OF THE SPAN.
A SECTION OF THE BRIDGE
COLLAPSED, TAKING TWO VEHICLES
WITH IT.
DAN SLIGH WAS ONE OF THE THREE
PEOPLE WHO WERE PLUNGED INTO THE
WATER.
ALL OF THEM GOT OUT ALIVE, WITH
ONLY MINOR INJURIES.
>> YOU TALK MIRACLES.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT YOU WANT TO
CALL IT, WHEN YOU'RE SITTING
DOWN IN THE WATER AND THERE'S
ALL THAT MANGLED METAL AND
BRIDGE AND YOU'RE LOOKI ARONGUND
KIND OF PINCHING YOURSELF AND
REALIZING THAT YOU'RE LUCKY TO
BE ALIVE.
IT'S A PRETTY AMAZING DAY TO
TELL YOU THE TRUTH.
>> Sreenivasan: THE BRIDGE COULD
BE OUT FOR MONTHS, FORCING MORE
THAN 70,000 VEHICLES A DAY TO
FIND DETOURS.
WALL STREET HAD A RELATIVELY
QUIET DAY GOING INTO THE
MEMORIAL DAY WEEKEND.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED  EIGHT POINTS TO CLOSE AT
15,303.
THE NASDAQ FELL A FRACTION OF A
POINT TO CLOSE AT 3,459.
FOR THE WEEK, THE DOW LOST A
THIRD OF ONE PERCENT.
THE NASDAQ FELL MORE THAN A FULL
PERCENT.
PULITZER-PRIZE WINNING
JOURNALIST AND AUTHOR HAYNES
JOHNSON DIED TODAY AT A HOSPITAL
IN BETHESDA, MARYLAND, AFTER A
HEART ATTACK.
JOHNSON WAS A WASHINGTON
REPORTER FOR MORE HALF A
CENTURY, AND WON A PULITZER IN
1966 FOR CIVIL RIGHTS REPORTING.
HE ALSO AUTHORED 11 BOOKS, AND
FOR YEARS, PROVIDED HISTORICAL
INSIGHT AND COMMENTARY ON "THE
NEWSHOUR".
HERE HE IS IN 2009 SPEAKING WITH
JUDY ABOUT THE BOOK HE
CO-AUTHORED ON THE 2008
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION.
>> WE STARTED ON THIS BOOK THREE
YEARS AGO, NOT JUST TO DO
ANOTHER BOOK ON POLITICS OR
PRESIDENTS AND SO FORTH, BUT
BECAUSE WE REALLY DID BELIEVE
THIS WAS GOING TO BE A HISTORIC
ELECTION.
THE STAKES WERE SO BIG FOR THE
COUNTRY.
AND WHATEVER HAPPENED, IT WOULD
BE A TEST, NOT ONLY FOR THE
PRESIDENCY, BUT FOR THE PEOPLE
AND OUR POLITICAL SYSTEM.
AND THAT'S WHAT WE'RE SEEING
NOW.
IT'S VERY TOUGH.
AND WHOEVER WAS GOING TO BE
PRESIDENT WAS GOING TO HAVE ONE
OF THE MOST DIFFICULT TIMES
SINCE F.D.R. IN 1932, TAKING
OVER ALL THE ISSUES BEFORE THE
COUNTRY.
AND OBAMA IS FINDING THAT.
IS HE HANDLING IT WELL?
IS HE TRYING TO DO TO MUCH?
THAT'S THE STORY.
THAT'S THE NEXT PHASE.
THAT'S THE NEXT CHAPTER.
>> Sreenivasan: HAYNES JOHNSON
WAS 81 YEARS OLD.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO JUDY.
>> Woodruff: AND WE TURN TO THE
AFTERMATH OF THE TORNADOES IN
OKLAHOMA.
FUNERAL SERVICES WERE HELD TODAY
FOR TWO OF THE 24 PEOPLE WHO
WERE KILLED IN MOORE ON MONDAY,
INCLUDING A BOY WHO DIED AT THE
PLAZA TOWERS ELEMENTARY SCHOOL.
THE GOVERNOR ALSO SAID TODAY
THAT SHE HAD SIGNED A BILL
AUTHORIZING $45 MILLION IN STATE
AID FOR DEVASTATED COMMUNITIES.
THE DAY BEFORE THE TORNADO
FLATTENED MOORE, A LESS POWERFUL
TWISTER LEVELED HOMES IN RURAL
LINCOLN COUNTY, SOMETHING THAT
HAPPENS FREQUENTLY IN APRIL AND
MAY IN OKLAHOMA.
IN SHAWNEE, TWO PEOPLE DIED WHEN
A MOBILE HOME PARK WAS WIPED
OUT.
AND THE TOWNS OF FALLIS AND
CARNEY WERE ALSO HIT HARD.
RESIDENTS IN THAT AREA ARE NOW
CLEANING UP.
OUR COLLEAGUES AT OKLAHOMA
EDUCATIONAL TELEVISION HAVE BEEN
FOLLOWING THEIR STORY AND
CORRESPONDENT BOB SANDS REPORTS
ON THE RESILIENCE OF THE
COMMUNITY.
>> Reporter: NEARLY EVERY HOME
IN FALLIS SUFFERED SOME SORT OF
DAMAGE FROM THE SUNDAY TORNADO.
THE RELIEF EFFORT IN MOORE,
THOSE WHO LIVE IN THE RURAL
LINCOLN COUNTY COMMUNITY ARE
FINDING HELP FROM FAMILY,
FRIENDS AND IN MANY CASES TOTAL
STRANGERS.
DAVID AND CHERYL WARRICK'S HOME
SUFFERED DAMAGE AND THEIR
PROPERTY IS A MESS.
THEY'VE HAVE HAD LOTS OF HELP
CLEANING UP.
>> THIS IS A REAL CLOSE KNIT
AREA AND THERE'S BEEN TONS OF
PEOPLE UP AND DOWN THE ROAD
OFFERING HELP AND BRNG
WATER, OFFERING FOOD.
>> Reporter: JUST DOWN THE ROAD,
THE TORNADO DESTROYED ALLEN AND
BECKY BUCHANAN'S HOME OF 13
YEARS, ALONG WITH ALL THE OTHER
BUILDINGS ON THEIR PROPERTY.
LIKE IT DID FOR THE WARRICKS,
HELP CAME QUICKLY.
OH, MY GOD, OUR PHONES, WE JUST
RINGING OFF THE HOOK.
I MEAN, VOICE MAILS, EMAILS, I
MEAN IT'S ALMOST IMPOSSIBLE TO
EVEN ANSWER THE PHONE.
>> THERE'S ACTUALLY SOME GUYS
OUT THERE NOW CLEANING OUT THE
SHOP.
>> YEAH, WE DON'T EVEN KNOW WHO
THEY ARE.
WHO IS THAT?
>> Reporter: THAT GUY IS JASON
SHAFFER, WHO LIVES A COUPLE OF
MILES FROM THE BUCHANANS.
>> THEY NEEDED HELP, JUST WHAT
US COUNTRY BOYS DO I GUESS.
>> Reporter: SHAFFER SAYS THE
TORNADO JUST MISSED HIS HOME SO
HE FELT THE NEED TO HELP THOSE
THE STORM DIDN'T MISS.
AND HE EXPECTS NOTHING IN RETURN
FOR HIS HELP.
>> GIVE THE GLORY TO GOD THAT'S
ALL WE'VE GOT TO DO.
AND DO WHAT WE CAN CLEAN THIS
MESS UP ANLET D HIM GET A NEW
>> Reporter: HEALTH CARE EVEN
SHOWED UP IN THE FORM OF THE
LINCOLN COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT
READY WITH TETANUS SHOTS.
THAT INCLUDED JASON...
>> OUCH!
>> Reporter: THE BUCHANANS AND
STANDING IN WHAT WAS LEFT OF THE
BUCHANAN KITCHEN THE FAMILY
REMAINS THANKFUL FOR WHAT THEY
DO HAVE AND WHERE THEY LIVE.
>> I'M GLAD TO BE AN OKLAHOMAN
TODAY, EVEN THOUGH YOU KNOW ONE
DAY IT'S HOT, ONE DAY IT'S COLD
AND ONE DAY IT'S, WELL, TORNADO
WEATHER.
>> Reporter: A FEW MILES AWAY IN
THE CARNEY SENIOR CENTER THE RED
CROSS HAS SET UP OPERATIONS.
A SMALL ARMY OF VOLUNTEERS IS
SERVING THREE MEALS A DAY.
VOLUNTEERS ARE SMOKING BURGERS,
HOT DOGS AND SLABS OF PORK WITH
ALL THE FIXINGS.
>> A LOT OF THE PEOPLE YOU SEE
OUT HERE ARE WORKERS WHO HAVE
COME OUT AS WELL AS THE PEOPLE
THAT HAVE BEEN AFFECTED BY THIS
DISASTER.
>> Reporter: CRAIG BUCHANAN IS
THE SITE DIRECTOR OF THE CARNEY
RED CROSS RELIEF EFFORT.
HE SAYS IT'S ANOTHER EXAMPLE OF
OKLAHOMANS HELPING OKLAHOMANS.
>> THE COMMUNITY OUTPOURING HAS
JUST BEEN AMAZING.
THE AMOUNT OF PEOPLE THAT ARE
HELPING EACH OTHER THE CHURCHES
GROUPS THE KIWANAS, ALL THE
OTHER SPONTANEOUS VOLUNTEERS THE
SALVATION ARMY WAS OUT HERE AND
>> Reporter: ON A NORMAL DAY
JOHN ARNOLD RUNS AN OUTDOOR
ADVERTISING COMPANY.
BUT HE'S FOUND A NEW PURPOSE FOR
SOME OF THAT BILLBOARD MATERIAL.
>> AND SO I WENT TO MY SHOP I
LOADED UP A BUNCH OF VINYLS THAT
CAME OFF BILLBOARDS WHICH MAKE
HEAVY DUTY TARPS.
>> Reporter: WITH ALL THE ROOF
DAMAGE IN FALLIS, CARNEY AND
OTHER AREAS, ARNOLD KNEW THOSE
VINYLS WOULD COME IN HANDY  SO
AFTER THAT FIRST LOAD HE WENT
BACK FOR MORE.
>> A GUY ASKED ME IF I COULD
BRING UP ANOTHER LOAD BACK UP
TODAY, SO I WENT TO THE SHOP AND
LOADED THEM UP, SO I'VE GOT
ABOUT 30-35 OUT IN THE TRUCK.
AND AFTER WE'RE DONE WITH THE
AND IT'S WONDERFUL IT MAKES ME
BE PROUD TO BE FROM OKLAHOMA TO
BE A PART OF THIS SPIRIT.
>> Reporter: THE SUNDAY TORNADO
NEARLY DESTROYED THE STEELMAN
ESTATES MOBILE HOME PARK NEAR
SHAWNEE.
TWO LIVES WERE LOST AND MANY
PEOPLE WERE INJURED.
FARON DAVIS RUNS D&D TRUCK SALES
AND SERVICE IN OKLAHOMA CITY.
BUT ON THIS DAY HE IS THE
PRIMARY SUPPLIER OF HOT MEALS TO
THOSE WHO REMAIN IN THE PARK AND
THE PEOPLE CLEANING UP.
>> IT MISSED OUR BUSINESS BY A
MILE MISSED OUR FARM BY A MILE
SO WE THOUGHT WE BETTER GO TAKE
CARE OF EVERYBODY ELSE.
>> Reporter: AND DAVIS IS
PASSING OUT MORE THAN JUST HOT
MEALS.
>> WE TRY TO GIVE THEM A LITTLE
MONEY IF WE KNOW IT TORE THEIR
HOUSE DOWN.
WHERE THEY CAN GO GET THEM A
ROOM WE TRY TO GIVE EM A HUNDRED
DOLLAR BILL IF WE KNOW THEIR
HOUSE WAS TORN DOWN AND MAYBE
THEY CAN GET A GOOD MEAL OR A
ROOM SOMETHING OUT OF THE DEAL.
>> Reporter: THERE IS STILL A
SENSE OF HOPE IN STEELMAN
ESTATES.
A SENSE BOLSTERED BY THE
DISCOVERY OF A SURVIVOR THAT
SPENT THREE DAYS UNDER THE
DEBRIS.
MICHELLE HOKE FOUND HIM AS SHE
SEARCHED THE WRECKAGE OF HER
HOME.
>> I WENT TO GO REACH FOR
SOMETHING AND I SAW FUR, I MOVED
SOMETHING ELSE AND ALL OF A
SUDDEN HE MOVED AND I MOVENOUGHS
MY NEIGHBORS DOG, YELLED FOR
HELP AND WE GOT HIM OUT.
>> Reporter: SABER HAD SEVERAL
INJURIES.
YO COUULD SEE THE STRESS OF
BEING BURIED ON HIS FACE.
HE WAS DIRTY, AND VERY THIRSTY.
FROM THE SMOKER FARON SENT OVER
SOME OF HIS GRILLED HAMBURGERS,
SABERS FIRST FOOD IN THREE DAYS.
>> OH, HEY, HEY, HE'S EATING.
COME ON, COME ON, THERE YOU GO.
>> Reporter: NEARBY, ANOTHER
FAMILY WAS GOING THROUGH THE
RUINS OF THEIR HOME, AS TWO
YOUNG BOYS WAITED ANXIOUSLY TO
SEE WHAT THEY WOULD FIND.
FOR CALEB THE DAY GOT MUCH
BETTER WITH THE DISCOVERY OF HIS
BASEBALL BAG.
>> Reporter: AS IN MANY PLACES
ACROSS OKLAHOMA, THERE WAS
SPONTANEOUS PRAYER.
REACHING OUT FOR THE STRENGTH TO
KEEP GOING FORWARD.
MICHELLE HOKE WANTS TO REBUILD
AND STAY IN STEELMAN ESTATES.
AND SHE HAS SOME ADVICE FOR
OTHERS.
>> Brown: NEXT, A NEW SEASON AND
A NEW PHENOMENON HIT COMPUTER
SCREENS THIS SUNDAY.
GWEN IFILL LOOKS AT THE LATEST
EVOLUTION OF THE ENTERTAINMENT
INDUSTRY.
>> Ifill: VIEWED ONE WAY, IT'S
OLD FASHIONED TELEVISION.
A SITUATION COMEDY WITH FAMILIAR
ACTORS, APPEARING ON A SCREEN.
BUT THOSE SCREENS ARE
INCREASINGLY FOUND ON LAPTOPS,
CELLPHONES AND TABLETS, AS SHOWS
LIKE "ARRESTED DEVELOPMENT"
MIGRATE TO STREAMING VIDEO.
>> THIS IS THE STEIN I'VE BEEN
WAITING FOR!
>> Ifill: CULT FAVORITE
"ARRESTED DEVELOPMENT," WHICH
WAS A CRITICAL HIT FOR THREE
SEASONS ON FOX BEFORE BEING
CANCELED IN 2006, IS THE LATEST
ONLINE-ONLY OFFERING FOR VIEWERS
WHO ARE INCREASINGLY CHOOSING
WHEN AND WHERE TO GET THEIR
ENTERTAINMENT.
THAT INCLUDES CANCELLED SAPO
OPERAS LIKE "ALL MY CHILDREN"
AND ORIGINAL PROGRAMMING LIKE
"HOUSE OF CARDS," WHICH MAY HAVE
SINGLE-HANDEDLY REVIVED THE
VIDEO SERVICE NETFLIX.
THE PROGRAMS LEND THEMSELVES TO
ON DEMAND, BINGE WATCHING.
NETFLIX'S 33 MILLION SUBSCRIBERS
CAN DIP IN AND OUT WHENEVER THEY
WANT.
NIELSEN EVEN HAS A NAME FOR SOME
OF THESE VIEWERS: "ZERO TV
HOUSEHOLDS."
UP TO FIVE MILLION NOW FROM TWO
MILLION IN 2007.
"HOUSE OF CARDS" ALONE HELPED
NETFLIX, WHICH HAD BEEN
STRUGGLING, ADD THREE MILLION
NEW SUBSCRIBERS IN THREE MONTHS,
WHICH PALES WHEN COMPARED TO
CONVENTIONAL BROADCAST
AUDIENCES, BUT IS ON THE RISE.
OTHER PROJECTS ARE IN THE WORKS.
THIS FALL, "DESPERATE
HOUSEWIVES" ACTRESS EVA LONGORIA
IS PRODUCING A 13-EPISODE ADULT
ANIMATED COMEDY ON THE ONLINE
VIDEO SITE HULU.
AS OUR VIEWING HABITS ARE
SHIFTING.
SO IS THE ENTERTAINMENT
INDUSTRY.
FOR MORE ON, THAT WE'RE JOINED
BY BRIAN GRAZER, CHAIR OF
IMAGINE ENTERTAINMENT WHICH
PRODUCES FILM AND TELEVISION,
INCLUDING "ARRESTED
DEVELOPMENT."
AND TELEVISION AND MEDIA CRITIC
ERIC DEGGANS.
BRIAN GRAZER, WHY DID YOU DECIDE
TO TAKE THIS ON LINE, THIS CULT
FAVORITE AS I THINK THEY CALL
IT?
>> (LAUGHS)
WELL, THERE WERE OTHER CHOICES
BUT IT TURNED OUT THAT TED
SERANDOS, WHO'S A HUGE FAN OF
"ARRESTED DEVELOPMENT."
AND HAPPENS TO ALSO RUN NETFLIX
ASKED US IF WE WOULD LIKE TO DO
OUR SERIES FOR NETFLIX WHICH
WOULD ENABLES U TO RELEASE IT
ALL IN ONE NIGHT AND THEN ENABLE
AUDIENCES, KIDS IN PARTICULAR--
BECAUSE THAT'S OUR BIG AUDIENCE
IS 18 TO 25-- TO BINGE VIEW IT.
AND IT'S THE KIND OF SHOW THAT
KIDS WOULD WATCH FOUR OR FIVE OR
SIX EPISODES EITHER ALONE IN
THEIR ROOM OR PARTIES OR JUST
BECOMES A SOCIAL SITUATION.
AND THEN WATCH SEVERAL OF THESE
EPISODES.
SO IT WAS THE PERFECT SITUATION
FOR US.
>> Ifill: MAYBE ADULTS WILL
WATCH IT AT THE SAME TIME.
>> WELL, I DON'T WANT TO
ELIMINATE ADULTS.
>> Ifill: ERIC DEGGANS, IS THERE
A BUSINESS MODEL FOR THIS NOW?
WE'VE SEEN THIS A COUPLE
DIFFERENT TIMES WITH A COUPLE
DIFFERENT PROGRAMS.
>> WELL, I THINK NET FLEX IS
CREATING THE BUSINESS MODEL
WHICH IS WHAT'S SO FASCINATING
FOR THOSE OF US WHO COVER
TELEVISION.
THEY'RE PIONEERING A WAY OF
DELIVERING TELEVISION AND
SPENDING THE AMOUNT OF MONEY
THAT THEY'RE PUTTING FORWARD TO
MAKE THIS SHOW, TO MAKE HOUSE OF
CARDS, TO MAKE "HEMLOCK GROVE"
THESE ARE BIG-TICKET ENTERPRISES
THEY PULL OUT ALL THE STOPS WITH
THE PRODUCTION AND I -- IT'S
HELPED NETFLIX'S STOCK PRICE BUT
WE DON'T YET KNOW HOW ALL OF
THIS IS GOING TO PLAY OUT.
I DON'T THINK EVEN NETFLIX KNOWS
HOW THIS WILL PLAY OUT.
>> Ifill: BRIAN GRAZER WHEN
YOU'RE TRYING TO PRODUCE
SOMETHING LIKE THIS, DOES IT
CHANGE KNOWING PEOPLE WILL WATCH
ALL AT ONCE IF THEY WANT TO?
DOES IT CHANGE THE KIND OF
PROGRAM YOU PUT TOGETHER?
DOES IT CHANGE PRODUCTION?
>> IT DOESN'T REALLY CHANGE
PRODUCTION.
IN FACT, WHAT IT DOES -- IT
CHANGES PRODUCTION ONLY IN THE
MOST FAVORABLE WAY BECAUSE IT
ENABLES US TO MAKE THEM ALL AT
ONCE AND HAVE THEM EXPERIENCED
ALL AT ONCE SO WHAT WE DID WAS
WITH THE ACTORS-- BECAUSE THE
ACTORS ON OUR T.V. SERIES
"ARRESTED DEVELOPMENT."
THEY ALL BECAME MOVIE STARS.
JASON BATEMAN AND MICHAEL CERA
AND -- THEY ALL BECAME MOVIE
STARS SO IT ENABLED US TO FIGURE
OUT A SCHEDULE WHERE EACH ONE OF
THESE STARS WOULD BE SORT OF THE
PRIMARY FOCUS OF AN EPISODE EVEN
THOUGH EVERYBODY ELSE, TOO, WILL
BE ON THE EPISODE.
SO IT EMPOWERED US TO BOARD THE
SHOW AND MAKE -- AND ONCE AGAIN
ENABLE THE SHOW TO COME BACK
BECAUSE IT MIGHT NOT HAVE
ACTUALLY WORKED IN TERMS OF A
PRODUCTION SCHEDULE FOR NORMAL
TELEVISION.
>> Brown:.
>> Ifill: ERIC, I'M CURIOUS.
I WATCH VERY LITTLE TELEVISION
LIVE ANYMORE, AND PROBABLY YOU
DON'T EITHER-- OF COURSE THAT'S
YOUR JOB.
IS THAT SOMETHING WHICH IS
SPREADING OR THAT A VERY
TARGETED AUDIENCE WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT?
>> NO, IT'S DEFINITELY SPREADING
AND WHAT WE'RE FINDING IS THAT
YOUNGER PEOPLE, OF COURSE, ARE
LESS LIKELY TO WATCH TELEVISION
IN THE MORE TRATHEY'RE MORE LIKT
ONLINE.
MORE LIKELY COB CORD CUTTERS,
PEOPLE WHO DON'T USE CABLE
TELEVISION, FOR EXAMPLE, AND
ONLY GET THEIR TELEVISION HABIT
THROUGH ONLINE.
THAT'S WHY IT'S INTERESTING TO
SEE WHAT NETFLIX IS DOING
BECAUSE THEY SEEM TO BE
TARGETING THE WAY WE'RE GOING TO
BE WATCHING A LOT OF OUR
TELEVISION IN JUST A FEW YEARS.
>> Ifill: SO LET'S ASSUME FOR A
MOMENT, BRIAN GRAZER, THAT THIS
IS A CULTURAL SHIFT.
THAT PEOPLE ARE CHANGING THE WAY
THEY ENTERTAIN THEMSELVES.
DOES IT PAY OFF CREATIVELY OR
FINANCIALLY FOR PRODUCERS?
>> WELL, OKAY, TWO THINGS.
ONE IS I DO THINK -- I MEAN,
NOBODY CAN REALLY PROGNOSTICATE
WHAT VIEWING HABITS ARE OR WHAT
THEY'RE GOING TO BE.
BUT IT REALLY DOES SEEM BECAUSE
OF D.V.R. THAT THEY'RE A CYCLE
AHEAD IN TERMS OF EVERYBODY ELSE
IN TERMS OF HOW THEY'RE GOING TO
ALLOW VIEWERS TO SEE TELEVISION
SHOWS BECAUSE IT'S JUST GOING TO
BE THE PERFECT SITUATION FOR
THEM.
AS FAR AS FINANCIALLY, THEY
ENDED UP-- THEY, NETFLIX AND TED
THEIR COMPANY-- PAID US WHAT
ANYONE ELSE WOULD HAVE PAID US,
WHETHER IT BE SHOWTIME OR HBO OR
POSSIBLY THE NETWORK FOR THESE
EPISODES.
SO IN THAT WAY IT WAS QUITE
COMPARABLE.
AND I THINK IT JUST HELPS YOU
BUILD YOUR SHOW, GET IT TO
SYNDICATION, GET IT TO OTHER --
YOU KNOW, TO OTHER INCOME
STREAMS QUICKER THAN MAYBE, YOU
KNOW, THE ALTERNATIVE DIRECTION.
>> Ifill: SO, ERIC, IF YOU'RE
THE CONSUMER IN THIS FORMULA AND
YOU ARE THINKING, WELL, MAYBE I
CAN WATCH EVERYTHING ON MY IPAD,
WHY SHOULD I BOTHER TO PAY FOR
CABLE ANYMORE?
IS THIS A THREAT TO CABLE
COMPANIES OR TO BROADCAST?
>> WELL, ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
YOU CAN'T GET IS YOU CAN'T GET
LIVE NEWS NECESSARILY.
THAT'S HARDER.
AND YOU CAN'T GET LIVE SPORTS.
YOU CAN'T WATCH THE SUPER BOWL
NECESSARILY.
THERE'S A LOT OF LIVE SPORTING
EVENTS, FOOTBALL ESPECIALLY,
THAT YOU CAN'T NECESSARILY SEE
ONLINE.
AND SO THAT'S WHERE CABLE
COMPANIES ARE DRAWING PEOPLE IN.
THAT'S ONE REASON WHY ESPN, FOR
EXAMPLE, CAN CHARGE SO MUCH PER
SUBSCRIBER, MORE THAN $5 PER
SUBSCRIBER FOR THEIR SERVICE.
BECAUSE THAT'S SOMETHING THAT
YOU CAN'T NECESSARILY GET ONLINE
YET.
BUT THERE'S A DRIVE AMONGST
CONSUMERS, I THINK, TO HAVE MORE
CONTROL OVER THEIR VIEWING, TO
WATCH SHOWS WHEN THEY WANT TO
WATCH THEM AND HOW OFTEN THEY
WANT TO WATCH THEM AND THAT'S
BREAKING DOWN BOTH THE CABLE
T.V. MODEL AND THE BROADCAST MAD
DELL.
>> Ifill: LET ME TELL YOU MY
PROBLEM WITH THIS WHICH IS, OF
COURSE, I WATCHED "HOUSE OF
CARDS" ALL ONLINE AND I COULDN'T
TALK TO ANYBODY ABOUT IT.
WHEN YOU'RE BINGE WATCHING,
BRIAN, YOU DON'T HAVE A CHANCE
TO SAY "DID YOU SEE WHAT
HAPPENED LAST NIGHT?"
IS ISN'T THAT A RISK FOR THE WAY
WE COMMUNICATE AS THE PEOPLE AT
THE WATER COOL COOLER IN A
SENSE?
>> THAT'S VERY INTERESTING!
NO ONE PRESENTED THAT QUESTION
TO ME.
I DON'T KNOW.
I THINK YOU'RE -- WE GENERATE --
THERE'S OTHER WAYS -- I MEAN, I
THINK -- I UNDERSTAND EXACTLY
WHAT YOU'RE SAYING.
BUT I THINK EXCITEMENT,
CURIOSITY AND THE EXPLOSIVE
NATURE OF HOW CONVERSATIONS WORK
CAN STILL BE APPLIED BECAUSE YOU
CAN SAY I JUST SAW FIVE EPISODES
OF "ARRESTED DEVELOPMENT."
YOU MIGHT NOT BE DOING IT ON THE
WATER COOLER THE NEXT DAY,
YOU'RE GOING TO BE DOING IT ON
ALL YOUR SOCIAL MEDIA.
SO I ACTUALLY -- I HADN'T
THOUGHT OF YOUR QUESTION OR ITS
ANSWER, BUT I DO THINK THAT --
(LAUGHS)
I DO THINK THAT IT LEADS TO
OTHER CONVERSATIONS THAT LIVE
WITHIN THE DEMOGRAPHIC OF THE
AUDIENCE AND THAT IS EVEN MORE
SCALABLE BECAUSE OF THE
INTERNET.
>> Ifill: HOW ABOUT THAT, ERIC?
>> WELL, GWEN, I'VE GOT TO SAY,
YOU REMIND ME OF THAT
"PORTLANDIA" SKETCH WHERE TWO
COUPLES ARE TRYING TO TALK ABOUT
A MOVIE THEY LIKE AND
EVERYBODY'S GOING "SPOILER
ALERT!
DON'T TALK!"
PEOPLE WATCH "MAD MEN," THEY
D.V.R. IT AND WATCH IT WHERE
THEY CAN.
YOU TRY TO TALK TO YOUR FRIENDS
ABOUT IT AND THEY HAVEN'T
WATCHED IT YET AND THEY DON'T
WANT TO TALK ABOUT SITE THAT'S A
PROBLEM BUT WHAT I FOUND WITH
"HOUSE OF CARDS" ESPECIALLY,
THAT WAS SUCH A WELL-DONE SERIES
THAT PEOPLE TENDED TO WATCH IN
THE BIG CHUNS SO YOU COULD TALK
ABOUT IT WITHIN A WEEK OR SO.
YOU COULD REALLY TALK ABOUT IT
BECAUSE A LOT OF FANS OF THE
SHOW HAD ALREADY WATCHED IT.
THERE'S SO MUCH ANTICIPATION FOR
"ARRESTED DEVELOPMENT."
THAT THEY'RE NOT EVEN LETTING US
CRITICS SEE VERY MANY ADVANCED
EPISODES.
I JUST FOUND OUT TODAY I MAY GET
TO WATCH ONE EPISODE IN ADVANCE.
NORMALLY WE'VE BEEN ABLE TO SEE
THREE OF THEM BEFORE THE SHOW
DEBUTS.
SO THEY'RE NOT EVEN TRUSTING US
CRITICS TO NOT SPOIL IT FOR
PEOPLE.
>> Ifill: I'LL LET YOU TAKE THAT
BRUP W BRIAN GRAZER OFF LINES.
ERIC AND BRIAN, THANK YOU BOTH
SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU FOR HAVING US.
>> Brown: YOU CAN TEST YOUR OWN
"ARRESTED DEVELOPMENT" KNOWLEDGE
BY TAKING OUR ONLINE QUIZ.
WE'VE ALSO POSTED ONE AUTHOR'S
TAKE ON HOW TECHNOLOGY HAS
CRACKED OPEN THE ENTERTAINMENT
INDUSTRY, TO JUST ABOUT ANYONE
WITH A CREATIVE IDEA.
>> Woodruff: AND TO THE ANALYSIS
OF BROOKS AND MARCUS.
THAT'S "NEW YORK TIMES"
COLUMNIST DAVID BROOKS AND
"WASHINGTON POST" COLUMNIST RUTH
MARCUS.
MARK SHIELDS IS OFF TODAY.
AND WHETHER THEY'RE WATCHING US
ON TELEVISION OR THEIR LAPTOP OR
THEIR SMART PHONE, WE'RE GLAD
YOU'RE HERE.
>> OR STONE TABLETS.
(LAUGHTER)
>> Warner:.
>> Woodruff: SO THE PRESIDENT'S
BIG SPEECH ON NATIONAL SECURITY,
HE SAID WE NEED TO REDEFINE AS A
COUNTRY OUR APPROACH TO THE WAR
ON TERROR.
YOU SAID IF WE DON'T -- HE SAID
IF WE DON'T DEFINE IT, IT WILL
DEFINE US.
DAVID?
>> I THINK "REDEFINE" IS A
LITTLE STRONG.
I THINK WE'RE FINE.
WE HAD A PERIOD OF INTENSE
EXPANSION OF THE NATIONAL
SECURITY STATE IN THE EARLY BUSH
YEARS.
BY THE MIDDLE OF THE BUSH YEARS
WE'D BEGUN TO TRY TO NORMALIZE
THINGS AND THEY TRIED TO FIGURE
OUT HOW TO SCALE THINGS BACK AND
GET OUT OF GUANTANAMO BAY AND
THINGS HAVE BEEN SLOWLY
RETURNING TO SOME SORT OF
PERMANENT NORMALCY SINCE AND I
THINK WITH THE SPEECH THE
PRESIDENT GAVE THIS WEEK WAS A
VERY MATURE SPEECH AND SERIOUS
SPEECH AND MOVED US ANOTHER STEP
IN THE DIRECTION.
RHETORICALLY IT WAS BIG,
SUBSTANTIVELY IT WAS UNCERTAIN
AND SMALL BUT A STEP IN THE
RIGHT DIRECTION.
SO THINGS LIKE MAKING AT LEAST A
NOD TO THE DRONE POLICY GETTING
IT TO THE DEPARTMENT WHERE IT
BELONGS, TRYING TO FIND A WAY TO
GET IT ARE OF GUANTANAMO.
ADJUSTING OUR LEVEL OF PANIC.
HOW STRONGLY WE'RE GOING TO
REACT TO TERROR ATTACKS.
GETTING IT MORE LIKE WE'RE LESS
SCARED OUT OF OUR MINDS AND MORE
LIKE OKAY THIS IS A PERMANENT
PART OF REALITY.
I THINK IT WAS A SPOZIVE THE
STEP IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION.
NOT A DRAMATIC SHIFT IN
SUBSTANCE.
>> Woodruff: SOME CRITICS ARE
SAYING IT'S CAPITULATION TO THE
ENEMY.
>> I WOULDN'T SAY THAT.
I'M PRETTY MUCH IN LINE WITH
WHAT DAVID SAID.
I'D LIKE TO GIVE THE PRESIDENT
CREDIT FOR TACKLING THIS ISSUE.
IT'S SOMETHING HE'S BEEN STEWING
ABOUT AND THINKING ABOUT.
HE'S BEEN AGONIZING ABOUT IT.
I'M IN FAVOR OF AGONIZING.
I DON'T THINK GEORGE W. BUSH DID
ENOUGH AGONIZING ABOUT THE LEGAL
FOOTING OF THE WAR ON TERROR AND
ITS FUTURE GOING FORWARD.
THAT SAID, LISTENING TO THE
SPEECH, READING IT, AGAIN, I --
IT STRIKES ME THAT THE PRESIDENT
IS PHENOMENON N SOME WAYS A
BETTER LAW STUDENT THAN A
PRESIDENT.
BY WHICH I MEAN HE'S TERRIFIC AT
SPOTTING THE ISSUES, HE'LL GIVE
YOU THE ARGUMENT, HE'LL IDENTIFY
THE ISSUE, ANALYZE IT WELL, GIVE
YOU THE ARGUMENT ON THIS SIDE,
THEN HE GIVES THE ARGUMENT
AGAINST.
WHAT HE DOESN'T COME UP WITH--
AND DAVID TOUCHED ON THIS-- IS
SAYING IT WAS RHETORICALLY BIG
AND SUBSTANTIVELY SMALL, HE
DOESN'T COME UP WITH A SOLUTION.
SO ON GUANTANAMO HE TALKS ABOUT
THE LEGACY ISSUE.
WELL THE LEGACY ISSUE OF PEOPLE
WHO CAN'T BE SAFELY RELEASED BUT
CAN'T BE TRADE.
WELL, IT'S BEEN FOUR PLUS YEARS
OF HIS PRESIDENCY.
THAT'S SOMETHING WE NEED TO
FIGURE OUT THE ANSWER TO.
IT'S HARD.
>> Woodruff: AND YOU'RE SAYING
HE SHOULD HAVE SUPPLIED THE
ANSWER OR --
>> I'M SAYING IT'S GREAT TO --
IT'S IMPORTANT AND USEFUL TO
HAVE THE DISCUSSION TO EDUCATE
THE PUBLIC BUT IT'S FRUSTRATING
ON -- THERE WAS MOVEMENT,
CLARITY, A LITTLE MORE CLARITY
ON DRONES BUT SIMPLY WHAT ARE WE
GOING TO DO IN TERMS OF
OVERSIGHT ON DRONES?
HE RAISED THE ISSUE BUT DIDN'T
ANSWER IT.
WHAT ARE WE GOING TO DO ABOUT
THE GUANTANAMO LEGACY PRISONERS?
HE RAISED THE ISSUE BUT DIDN'T
ANSWER IT.
TIME AFTER TIME THERE WAS THAT
SIDE STEPS.
>> WELL, I'M GOING TO BE A TAD
MORE POSITIVE.
ON THE DRONES, I THINK HE'S BEEN
REASONABLY RESPONSIBLE ABOUT THE
DRONES.
WHEN YOU'RE FACED AS PRESIDENT
YOU'RE FACED WITH A COUPLE
CHOICES.
SAY WE KNOW THERE'S TERRORIST X
HERE.
YOU CAN SEND IN THE MARINES
WHICH IS LIKE HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE
WHICH IS TERRIBLE COLLATERAL
DAMAGE.
YOU CAN SEND IN BOMBERS OR YOU
CAN USE A DRONE.
IT'THES  LEAST BAD OPTION.
HAVING SOME SORT OF OUTSIDE
REVIEW PROCEDURE WHICH HE SORT
OF NODDED TO BUT DID NOT DEFINE
WOULD BE MORE POSITIVE.
ON GUANTANAMO, IT'S A TERRIBLE
SITUATION.
ALL THE EVIDENCE IS TAINTED BY
HOW IT WAS GATHERED.
NOBODY WANTS TO TAKE THEM.
CONGRESS IS BLOCKING IT.
SO IT'S A DIFFICULT SITUATION
THAT'S LANDED IN THE BUSH
ADMINISTRATION AND NOW THIS LAP
AND NO ONE HAS BEEN ABLE TO
THINK OF A SOLUTION AS FAR AS I
COULD TELL.
THE ONE POSITIVE THING I WISH
THERE WERE MORE OF IS GOING
BACK-- AND I'M GOING TO SOUND
LIKE A BUSHIE-- BUT WE TALKED
ABOUT THE UNCERTAINTY OF THE
MIDDLE EAST.
IT'S STILL TRUE FUNDAMENTALLY
THAT THE ONLY WAY OUT OF THIS
AND THE LONG-TERM ANSWER IS THE
PROMOTION OF DEMOCRACY AND
MODERATION.
I WISH WE WERE MORE AGGRESSIVE
IN USING SOFT POWER TO HELP THE
MODERATES, TO HELP THE
DEMOCRATIC PROJECT KNOWING THAT
IT'S GOING TO TAKE A COUPLE
GENERATIONS BUT A LITTLE MORE OF
THAT WOULD BE NICE.
>> Woodruff: BUT HE DIDN'T GET
INTO THAT YESTERDAY.
>> HE TALKED ABOUT THE
INSTABILITY OF THE MIDDLE EAST,
HE GESTURED TOWARD THE ARAB
SPRING.
I THINK THAT HAS TO BE THE CORE
OF OUR POLICY.
>> Woodruff: ESSENTIALLY DAVID
IS SAYING THERE AREN'T ANSWERS
YET TO SOME OF THESE QUESTIONS.
>> THERE AREN'T ANSWERS BUT WHEN
YOU'RE THE PRESIDENT I'M SORRY
TO BE UNCHARITABLE HERE, YOU
NEED TO DO MORE THAN RAISE THE
ISSUES YOU NEED TO SKETCH THOSE
ANSWERS.
I'M NOT SAYING IT WAS -- IT WAS
A STEP FORWARD BUT, FOR EXAMPLE,
ON DRONES NOW WE'RE ONLY GOING
TO -- THE GUIDELINES SAY WE'RE
ONLY GOING TO USE THEM IF THERE
IS A NEAR CERTAINTY THERE WON'T
BE CIVILIAN DEATHS.
WELL, THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
REVEALED THAT DRONES-- WHICH, I
AGREE, CAN BE A VERY, VERY
VALUABLE TOOL-- THAT THE DRONES
KILLED FOUR AMERICANS.
THREE OF THEM WERE NOT AMERICANS
THAT WE TARGETED.
SO HOW DO YOU -- GUIDELINES ARE
NIGHT BUT ASK THE PRESS ABOUT
GUIDELINES IN THE A.P.
INVESTIGATION.
GUIDELINES ARE ONLY AS GOOD AS
THE PEOPLE WHO ARE IMPLEMENTING
THEM.
>> Woodruff: THAT WAS A YEMEN
STRIKE.
SO ONE OF THE OTHER THINGS
THAT'S LANDED IN THE PRESIDENT'S
LAP, THE I.R.S., A COUPLE OF
DEVELOPMENT THIS IS WEEK WE
LEARNED THE WOMAN OVERSEEING
DECISIONS ON WHAT WAS TAX-EXEMPT
AND WHAT WASN'T, SHE'S BEEN PUT
ON ADMINISTRATIVE LEAVE WE ALSO
LEARNED THE PRESIDENT'S CHIEF OF
STAFF DENNIS McDONOUGH KNEW
ABOUT THIS BUT DECIDED NOT TO
TELL THE PRESIDENT.
>> RIGHT.
>> Woodruff: IS IT A BIGGER
CONTROVERSY, SMALLER?
>> I THINK IT'S A LITTLE MORE
APPALLING.
WE'VE LEARNED THE I.R.S. IS NOT
IN THE BUSINESS OF OWNING UP TO
WHAT THEY DID AND TRYING TO SAY
"HERE'S HOW WE'LL FIX IT"
THEY'RE MORE IN THE BUSINESS OF
TRYING TO SHUT DOWN AND I GUESS
THEY'RE DOING IT FOR FEAR OF
CRIMINAL PROSECUTION.
BUT THEY'RE NOT EXACTLY POINTING
TO A SOLUTION OR A FIX.
THEY'RE NOT EXACTLY POINTING IT
TO ANY SENSE OF CON TRAGS.
WAS IT A PROBLEM FOR DENNIS
McDONOUGH TO NOT TELL THE
PRESIDENT?
I DON'T THINK.
SO THERE'S A LOT OF THINGS.
IF YOU PICK OUT THIS ISOLATED
THING, WHY DIDN'T HE TELL THE
PRESIDENT?
WELL, EVERYDAY DENNIS McDONOUGH
OR WHOEVER THE CHIEF OF STAFF IS
PROBABLY LEARNS A LOT OF THINGS
THAT HE DOESN'T TELL THE
PRESIDENT BECAUSE THE PRESIDENT
HAS A LIMITED AMOUNT OF DECISION
TIME SO BLOCKING INFORMATION TO
THE PRESIDENT IS HIS JOBSO I THE
THE POLITICAL RADAR DIDN'T GO
OFF.
I THINK PROBABLY SEEMS LIKE
SOMETHING THE PRESIDENT DID NEED
TO WORRY ABOUT.
>> I SEE IT DIFFERENTLY.
WE NEED TO KEEP THE I.R.S. STORY
IN FOCUS WHICH IS THIS.
THE I.R.S. ACTIONS WERE
REPREHENSIBLE, HEADS SHOULD HAVE
ROLLED AND THEY DID ROLL.
THERE IS NO EVIDENCE THAT THIS
WAS ANYTHING EXCEPT FOR BOTTOM
UP INCOMPETENCE AND STUPIDITY
ABETTED BY MANAGEMENT,
INCREDIBLY BAD MANAGEMENT AT THE
I.R.S..
THERE'S NO EVIDENCE THAT ANYBODY
AT TREASURY, NO LESS ANYBODY AT
THE WHITE HOUSE, KNEW ABOUT ANY
OF THIS BEFORE THE I.G. STARTED
INVESTIGATING.
SO WHEN THIS DID GO TO THE WHITE
HOUSE, THOUGH THEY IN THEIR
USUAL WAY MANAGED TO MAKE THEIR
OWN MESS OF THINGS WHICH IS THEY
GAVE OUT INFORMATION THAT WAS
NOT FULL AND ACCURATE
INFORMATION.
>> YOU MEAN WITH THE PRESS
SECRETARY?
>> YES, ABOUT WHO KNEW WHAT
WHEN.
THEN IF THEY HAD THE INFORMATION
EARLY WHY DIDN'T THEY DO A
BETTER JOB FOR GOODNESS SAKES OF
RESPONDING QUICKLY TO THIS
THING?
BECAUSE I DON'T THINK IT WAS A
LACK OF POLITICAL RADAR, THEY
KNEW THIS WAS GOING TO BE A BIG
MESS AND THEY SHOULD HAVE HAD
THE PRESIDENT OUT THERE MORE
QUICKLY RESPONDING TO IT.
>> Woodruff: YO SO YOU'RE
CRITICIZING THE WAY THEY HANDLED
IT, NOT SO MUCH WHAT McDONOUGH
DID OR DIDN'T DO IN TELLING THE
PRESIDENT.
>> YES.
>> Woodruff: SO IS ATE BIGGER --
IS THE SCANDAL CONTROVERSY
GROWING AND REPUBLICANS ARE
SAYING THERE'S STILL GOING TO BE
MORE HEARDINGS, MORE
INVESTIGATIONS?
>> IT'S CONTINUING.
I DON'T THINK IT'S GROWING.
BECAUSE I BECAUSE I THINK THIS
IS ALL SIDESHOW.
JUST TO BE CLEAR NOT THE I.R.S.
TARGETING ITSELF, THAT'S
OUTRAGEOUS.
BUT WHO KNEW WHAT AT THE WHITE
HOUSE AND WHAT WAS THE DECISION
MAKING ABOUT WHAT TO TELL THE
PRESIDENT I THINK IT REALLY GOES
TO THEY DIDN'T TELL THE
PRESIDENT.
IT'S SO GOING TO CONTINUE BUT I
DO NOT BELIEVE IT'S GOING TO
MUSHROOM INTO -- TO KEEP ON WITH
THE WATERGATE CANCER ON THE
PRESIDENCY.
>> I FIND IT HARD TO BELIEVE
THAT THEY HAPPENED TO PICK THE
MOST ANTI-TAX GROUPS IN AMERICA
AND THERE WASN'T SOME PREJUDICE.
I DON'T KNOW IF IT WAS POLITICAL
TARGETING.
I THINK IT WAS PREJUDICE.
AS A SCANDAL I REMAIN CONVINCE
THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT ATTACK ON
THE PRESS IS A MUCH -- WILL
BALLOON INTO A MUCH BIGGER
SCANDAL.
>> Woodruff: THAT'S WHAT I
WANTED TO ASK YOU ABOUT BECAUSE
WE'VE LEARNED MORE ABOUT HOW
AGGRESSIVE THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT HAS BEEN IN GOING
AFTER REPORTERS AT FOX NEWS AND
A.P. BUT THE PRESIDENT YESTERDAY
IN HIS SPEECH SAID THERE NEEDS
TO BE LIMITS, CLEAR LIMITS ON
HOW FAR AN ADMINISTRATION GOES
AFTER JOURNALISTS IN PURSUING
LEAKS.
SO --
>> WELL, HE MIGHT TALK WITH THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL.
I REALLY THINK WHAT'S HAPPENED
TO ROSEN AT FOX NEWS, WHAT
HAPPENED TO A.P. IS ALMOST
HISTORICALLY UNPRECEDENTED AND
UNCONSCIONABLE.
IT'S WITHOUT LIMITS, WITHOUT ANY
SENSE OF LEGAL RESPONSIBILITY OF
INVADING SOMEONE'S PRIVATE
E-MAIL AND IT'S PARTLY -- WE
HAVE THIS TECHNOLOGY WHERE IT'S
EASIER TO TRACE PEOPLE BECAUSE
IT'S ALL DONE ON E-MAIL NOW AND
YOU CAN LOOK AT IT THE TWO WAYS.
THERE'S GOING TO BE GREATER
TEMPTATION FOR US TO PRY INTO
EVERY MEDIA REPORTER'S E-MAIL SO
WE'VE GOT TO POLICE OURSELVES.
WE'VE GOT TO THE -- IT'S JUST
HOG WILD AND I THINK SCANDAL IS
VASTLY OVER THE LINE.
I DON'T SAY THAT AS A REPORTER.
I'M NOT A PARTICULARLY OPEN
GOVERNMENT KIND OF GUY.
BUT I THINK IT'S TRULY
OFFENSIVE.
>> Woodruff: DOES THE FINGER
POINT AT THE ATTORNEY GENERAL?
AT ERIC HOLDER?
>> HE'S RECUSED FROM ONE OF
THESE, THE A.P. ONE, NOT FROM
THE OTHER.
IT'S A CLASSIC EXAMPLE, RIGHT?
THERE ARE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT
GUIDELINES THAT IF THEY WERE
FOLLOWED CAREFULLY SHOULD HAVE
STOPPED THIS.
THE RICHEST PART OF THE
PRESIDENT'S SPEECH WAS WHEN HE
SAID WE NEED TO MAKE SURE THAT
WE PROTECT REPORTERS AND THE
PRESS FROM GOVERNMENT OVERREACH.
IT'S LIKE EXCUSE ME, SIR, THAT'S
YOUR GOVERNMENT YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT.
NOW, JUST TO BE SLIGHTLY FAIR TO
THE PRESIDENT, IT IS VERY
DIFFICULT IN A CRIMINAL
INVESTIGATION YOU DO NOT WANT
THE WHITE HOUSE MICROMANAGING,
YOU DON'T WANT THEM SAYING "THIS
SUBPOENA IS OKAY AND THAT
SUBPOENA IS NOT OKAY."
BUT YOU DO WANT THEM MAKING YEAR
THE GENERAL TENOR OF THEIR
RELATIONS WITH THE MEDIA SHOULD
BE AND I DO FAULT BOTH HIM AND
HIS ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR
ALLOWING THIS.
>>
>> WHEN ANYBODY IN THE MEDIA
REPORTS ON A STORY THAT'S
SOMEWHAT BASED ON LEAKS, IT'S
PUBLIC.
IF THAT'S GOING TO BE A CRIME,
PUBLICLY REPORTING ON LEAKS THEN
-- WE JUST CAN'T FUNCTION.
>> FINAL QUESTION I WANT TO ASK
BOTH OF YOU ABOUT OKLAHOMA.
TERRIBLE TRAJ THINK WEEK WITH
THE DEATHS IN MOORE AND WE JUST
SAW THAT STORY ABOUT OTHER PARTS
OF THE STATE.
THEY JUST GET DEVASTATED EVERY
SPRING BY THESE TORNADOS BUT
DISCUSSION THIS WEEK, DAVID AND
RUTH ABOUT NUMBER ONE WHETHER
COMMUNITIES HAVE A
RESPONSIBILITY TO MAKE SURE
THERE ARE SHELTERS IN PUBLIC
BUILDINGS AND ALSO WHETHER IN
FEDERAL AID THERE SHOULD HAVE TO
BE AN OFFSET OF ANY MONEY THAT'S
SPENT ON DISASTER AID.
>> WE CAN'T PREDICT WHAT
DISASTERS THERE ARE GOING TO BE
BUT WE CAN PREDICT THAT THERE
ARE GOING TO BE DISASTERS AND
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WE NEED
DO IS INSTEAD OF NEEDING TO HAVE
EMERGENCY SPENDING AND -- THERE
ARE -- SENATOR COBURN IS RIGHT
THERE.
'S EMERGENCY SPENDING THAT
BECOMES A WAY TO SLIP IN ALL
SORTS OF EXTRANEOUS THINGS AND I
SAY THAT WITH DUE SYMPATHY FOR
THE FOLKS OF HURRICANE SANDY,
TORNADOS.
BUT WE NEED TO HAVE A SORT OF
BETTER FUNCTIONING GENERAL FUND
THAT ANTICIPATES DISASTER
SPENDING AND BUDGETS FOR IT.
>> AND IT'S CRAZY TO WORRY ABOUT
OFFSETTING SOME TINY LITTLE BIT
OF DISCRETIONARY SPENDING WHEN
THE ENTITLEMENT SPENDING IS A
GIANT WAVE AND WE PERPETUALLY
SPEND OUR TIME WORRYING ABOUT
LITTLE STUFF AND NOT FOCUSING ON
WHAT'S CAUSING THE BIG DEBT
PROBLEM AND THIS IS ANOTHER
EXAMPLE.
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S ANOTHER
WHOLE DISCUSSION.
DAVID BROOKS, RUTH MARCUS, THANK
YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Brown: FINALLY TONIGHT, THE
FIRST OF TWO TAKES ON AMERICA'S
ROLE IN THE WORLD.
MARGARET WARNER HAS OUR BOOK
CONVERSATION, WHICH WAS RECORDED
BEFORE PRESIDENT OBAMA'S
NATIONAL SECURITY SPEECH
YESTERDAY.
>> Warner: IN HIS NEW BOOK "THE
DEFENSIBLE NATION: AMERICAN
OR IN RETREAT" VALI
NASR, A FORMER ADVISOR TO THE
U.S. SPECIAL REPRESENTATIVE TO
AFGHANISTAN AND PAKISTAN BLAMES
THE WHITE HOUSE FOR MISHANDLING
THOSE COUNTRIES AND THE BROADER
MIDDLE EAST.
POLITICS AND THE PENTAGON DROVE
TOO MANY DECISIONS, NASR ARGUES,
WHILE OVERLOOKING BROADER
STRATEGIC SOLUTIONS OFFERED BY
HIS FORMER BOSS, THE LATE
RICHARD HOLBROOKE AND THEN
SECRETARY OF STATE HILLARY
CLINTON.
VALI NASR JOINS ME NOW.
WELCOME.
WHY DID YOU FEEL THE NEED TO
WRITE THIS BOOK?
>> I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT FOR US
TO HAVE A GOOD GAUGE OF OUR
FOREIGN POLICY MAKING,
PARTICULARLY WITH REGARD TO
AFGHANISTAN, WHICH IS VERY
IMPORTANT FOREIGN POLICY ISSUE
AT THE BEGINNING OF THE OBAMA
ADSTRATION AND BECAUSE I
THINK THE WAY WE HANDLED IT HAS
AN IMPACT ON OUR STANDING IN THE
REGION AND OUR STANDING GLOBALLY
AND I THINK WE IN MANY WAYS DID
NOT HANDLE THAT WAR AND THE END
OF THAT WAR IN A WAY THEY THAT
PROTECTS OUR INTERESTS AND I
THINK THE SAME SET OF APPROACHES
AND ATTITUDES TOWARDS FOREIGN
POLICY MAKING IS NOW GOVERNING
OUR APPROACH TO SYRIA, TO THE
ARAB SPRING AND ALSO POTENTIALLY
MORE BROADLY IN TERMS OF THE
STYLE OF FOREIGN POLICY THAT'S
VERY TACTICAL, IT'S TIMID AND
CAUTIOUS AND TOO MUCH DRIVEN BY
DOMESTIC POLITICAL
CONSIDERATIONS AND I THINK ALSO
STILL WE ARE LOOKING AT OUR MAIN
FORM OF ENGAGEMENT WITH THE
MIDDLE EAST THROUGH THE PRISM OF
MILITARY AND SECURITY ISSUES.
>> Warner: YOU WERE ON THE
INSIDE FOR TWO YEARS.
THERE'S A LOT IN THE THIS BOOK
IN THE WAY OF TIDBITS FROM
MEETINGS.
DID YOU HAVE ANY QUALMS ABOUT
WRITING IT?
>> I DID.
I THOUGHT VERY HARD ABOUT THIS
AND I THOUGHT THAT AFTER THE
ELECTION ONCE THE POLITICS IS
OVER IT'S TIME TO GO BACK TO
REALLY CONSIDERING ARE WE ON THE
RIGHT TRACK WITH FOREIGN POLICY?
DID WE MAKE THE RIGHT STRATEGY
FOR AFGHANISTAN?
WAS IT RIGHT TO SURGE WHEN WE
DID AND THEN IMMEDIATELY
WITHDRAW?
AND HOW TO DEBATE ABOUT HOW WE
ARE PROJECTING A ROLE IN THE
WORLD TO ENEMIES AND ALLIES AND
HOW WE ARE BEING PERCEIVED AND I
THINK THE PERCEPTION IS THAT
WE'RE NOT KEEN ON LEADING AND WE
ARE RETREATING FROM MANY POLICY
AREAS GLOBALLY AND I THINK
AMERICANS OUGHT TO THINK ABOUT
THESE ISSUES BEFORE GOING DOWN
THAT PATH.
>> Warner: WHEN YOU SAY THE
ADMINISTRATION IS DRIVEN BY
POLITICS AND THE MILITARY, DO
YOU MEAN IN TERMS OF BOTH
SURGING IN AFGHANISTAN?
LET'S TAKE AFGHANISTAN WHICH
YOU'RE DEEPLY INVOLVED IN AND
NOW ALSO IN SETTING THIS
TIMETABLE FOR WITHDRAWAL?
OR ISN'T IT -- OR IS IT THE
REALISTIC THING TO DO GIVEN ALL
THE FINANCIAL CONSTRAINTS THAT
THE U.S. FINDS ITSELF IN?
>> WELL, THEN WE SHOULDN'T HAVE
-- WE SHOULD HAVE SURGED IN THE
MANNER THAT WE DID.
THAT WAS LARGELY A DOMESTIC
POLITICAL CONSIDERATION BECAUSE
THE MILITARY CAME OUT OF IRAQ
VICTORIOUS AND TRIUMPHANT, IT
HAD SAVED THE DAY IN IRAQ.
SO WE SURGED.
BUT THEN HE DIDN'T LIKE THAT
POLICY AND HE IMMEDIATELY PUT A
DEADLINE ON THE SURGE WHICH MADE
IT BASICALLY DEAD ON ARRIVAL AS
FAR AS THE TALIBAN/PAKISTAN/IRAN
ET CETERA WERE CONCERNED AND
THEN WE BEGAN TO WITHDRAW.
SO IN END RESULT WE DIDN'T WIN
IN AFGHANISTAN AND WE DIDN'T
ACHIEVE A POLITICAL SETTLEMENT
THAT WE'D ALLOW SOME KIND OF
STABILITY WHEN WE LEAVE.
>> Warner: SARAH CHASE OF THE
CARNEGIE ENDOWMENT WHO WORKED IN
AFGHANISTAN AND SERVED AS AN
ADVISOR TO SOME MILITARY FIGURES
SHE WROTE A REAL REBUTTAL OF
YOUR BOOK AND I'M SURE YOU READ
IN THE "FOREIGN POLICY"
MAGAZINE.
AND SHE AGREES WITH YOU THAT THE
PENTAGON HAD TOO MUCH TO SAY
ABOUT THE POLICY BUT SHE
ACTUALLY FAULTS YOUR SHOP AND
THE STATE DEPARTMENT SHE SAYS
"NEITHER HOLBROOKE NOR CLINTON
PRODUCED A SERIOUS ANALYSIS OF
ISSUES LIKE THE CORRUPTION OF
THE AFGHAN GOVERNMENT OR THE
PAKISTAN MILITARY'S COZINESS
WITH THE TALIBAN.
NOR DEVELOPED COHERENT
APPROACHES FOR ADDRESSING THEM."
>> THAT'S ACTUALLY NOT A VALID
CRITICISM.
THAT'S AN OPERATIONAL ISSUE AT
THE LOWER LEVEL.
THE MOST IMPORTANT THING THAT
THE STATE DEPARTMENT TRIED TO DO
WAS TO CONVINCE THE WHITE HOUSE
THAT INSTEAD OF JUST EITHER
CHOOSING BETWEEN THE SURGE-- ALL
IN-- OR JUST WITHDRAWING
EVERYTHING AND RELYING ON
DRONES-- WHICH IS ALL OUT--
THERE HAD TO BE A MEDIUM
APPROACH TO ENDING THE WAR WHICH
IS FOCUS ON DIPLOMACY GIVE THE
PRIMACY TO A DIPLOMATIC SOLUTION
THAT WOULD ENGAGE THE NEIGHBORS
AND ALSO THE AFGHAN GOVERNMENT
AND THE TALIBAN.
PUT ENOUGH TROOPS ON THE GROUND
THAT WOULD BACK UP THIS PLAN.
AT THE HIGHEST LEVEL THE
SOLUTION THAT THE STATE
DEPARTMENT WAS LOOKING FOR WAS
NEVER MART OF THE OPTION THE
PRESIDENT CONSIDERED FOR
AFGHANISTAN.
>> Warner: BUT THERE WERE THESE
ARGUMENTS WITHIN YOUR MEETINGS
WHICH YOU MAKE CLEAR.
ISN'T THIS WHAT -- BECAUSE THE
PENTAGON WAS PUSHING BACK
AGAINST ENGAGING THE TALIBAN
WHILE THE TALIBAN WAS IN IT
MILITARILY.
ISN'T THIS THE SORT OF
DISAGREEMENTS THAT ARE SUPPOSED
TO TAKE PLACE AMONG DIFFERENT
PLAYERS IN THE ADMINISTRATION
AND VOICED VIGOROUSLY INSIDE?
>> BUT IT WASN'T.
THE PRESIDENT CONSIDERED TWO
OPTIONS: ONE WAS A FULLY
RESOURCED COUNTERINSURGENCY AND
MILITARY SOLUTION TO THE WAR AND
ONE WAS THE IDEA OF
COUNTERTERRORISM PLUS WHICH WAS
ADVOCATED BY THE VICE PRESIDENT
WHICH MEANS WE SHOULD JUST
ABANDON THIS WAR AND FOCUS ON
COUNTERTERRORISM.
IT WASN'T DEBATED THE WHOLE IDEA
WAS THAT IT BEEN
DEBATED OR REJECTED ON ITS
MERITS BUT IT WASN'T.
>> Warner: SO WHAT'S DONE IS
DONE.
WHAT DO YOU PREDICT AFGHANISTAN
AND THE REGION WILL LOOK LIKE
TWO YEARS FROM NOW?
>> I THINK SERVE IN A HOLDING
PATTERN UNTIL WE LEAVE BECAUSE
THEY FACTORED US OUT.
WE ANNOUNCED WE'RE LEAVING
WITHOUT ANY KIND OF A CLOSURE TO
THIS WAR.
WE'VE COME OUT WITH THE A
NARRATIVE THAT WE WILL HAVE A
SECURITY NOORS CAN TAKE OVER FOR
US.
I DON'T THINK MANY PEOPLE IN THE
REGION TAKE THAT AS A SERIOUS
SOLUTION FOR AFGHANISTAN AND
EVERYBODY AROUND AFGHANISTAN
STILL HAS VITAL INTEREST THERE
AND ARE LIKELY TO PURSUE THOSE
INTERESTS AND THAT MEANS THE
POTENTIAL FOR BREAKDOWN OF THE
CURRENT ORDER ULTIMATELY,
POTENTIALLY CIVIL WAR IN
AFGHANISTAN.
>> Warner: I LOOK FORWARD TO
CONTINUING OUR CONVERSATION
ONLINE.
VALI NASR, AUTHOR OF "THE
DISPENSABLE NATION," THANKS FOR
BEING WITH US.
>> Brown: THOSE EXTRA QUESTIONS
AND ANSWERS ARE INDEED ONLINE AS
IS MARGARET'S SECOND
CONVERSATION.
IT'S WITH RICHARD HAASS, WHO
SERVED IN BOTH BUSH
ADMINISTRATIONS.
HIS NEW BOOK IS TITLED, "FOREIGN
POLICY BEGINS AT HOME."
WE'LL AIR THAT ON THE "NEWSHOUR"
NEXT WEEK.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
PRESIDENT OBAMA URGED U.S. NAVAL
ACADEMY GRADUATES TO PUT A STOP
TO SEXUAL ASSAULTS, SAYING THE
CRISIS THREATENS TRUST IN THE
MILITARY.
AND THERE WERE MORE FUNERALS FOR
THE VICTIMS OF THE POWERFUL
TORNADO THAT TORE UP MOORE,
OKLAHOMA, ON MONDAY.
>> Brown: ONLINE, HOW DO
COUNTRIES RESPOND TO AGING
POPULATIONS IN NEED OF MORE
EXPENSIVE HEALTH CARE?
HARI SREENIVASAN TELLS US MORE.
>> Sreenivasan: COUNTRIES,
INCLUDING THE U.S., NEED TO
THINK ABOUT HOW TO CARE FOR AN
AGING POPULATION AND ALSO HOW TO
PAY FOR THAT CARE.
THE ORGANIZATION FOR ECONOMIC
COOPERATION AND DEVELOPMENT
RECOMMENDS INVESTING IN HEALTHY
LIFESTYLES TO PREVENT COSTLY
CARE LATER IN LIFE.
SEE MORE OF THEIR REPORT ON OUR
HEALTH PAGE.
AND ECONOMICS CORRESPONDENT PAUL
SOLMAN ANSWERS A READER'S
QUESTION REGARDING AFRICAN-
AMERICAN UNEMPLOYMENT.
HE GIVES THE CHILLING
STATISTICS.
THAT'S ON MAKING SENSE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
>> Woodruff: AND AGAIN, TO OUR
HONOR ROLL OF AMERICAN SERVICE
PERSONNEL KILLED IN THE
AFGHANISTAN CONFLICT.
WE ADD THEM AS THEIR DEATHS ARE
MADE OFFICIAL AND PHOTOGRAPHS
BECOME AVAILABLE.
HERE, IN SILENCE, ARE 11 MORE.
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
"NEWSHOUR" FOR TONIGHT.
ON MONDAY, MEMORIAL DAY, WE'LL
LOOK AT A GROUP THAT FLIES
VETERANS TO WASHINGTON SO THEY
CAN VISIT MONUMENTS THAT HONOR
THEIR SERVICE.
>> Brown: AND I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
"WASHINGTON WEEK" CAN BE SEEN
LATER THIS EVENING ON MOST
PBS STATIONS.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINEAND AGAIN
HERE MONDAY EVENING.
HAVE A NICE HOLIDAY WEEKEND.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
GOOD NIGHT.